# Capstone-Unsupervised_Learning
Music genre classification

This project explores the task of distinguising between different genres of music, as labeled in a dataset created by Spotify.  The target variable, genre, initially had 26 possible values, from which I selected the following ten values: Alternative, Country, Dance, Electronic, Folk, Rap, Classical, Reggae, Jazz, and Rock.  I used all features in the dataset, except for artist name, track name, and track id.  I mapped all non-numerical features into catagorical numbers, and the remaining features were all continuous variables.

The features were: popularity,	acousticness, danceability,	duration in milliseconds,	energy,	instrumentalness,	key	liveness,	loudness,	mode, speechiness,	tempo,	time_signature, and valence.  Definitions of each feature can be found here: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/reference/tracks/get-audio-features/.

Interestingly, the correlation between the features and the target variable were not particularly strong.  As a result, the number of correctly labeled data points was only slightly better than what would be expected if the data points had been labeled at random.  This was true for all attempted clustering methods, and for every clustering method the ARI and silhouette scores were relatively low.  I used three dimensionality reduction techniques: PCA, t-SNE, and UMAP.  For the three reduction techniques, python was not able to display the graph for PCA reduction because there were too many pixels in the graph, t-SNE reduction yielded an interesting graph, but not one with easily distinguishable clusters, and only UMAP reduction produced a graph with a few distinguishable clusters.

In conclusion, I found it challenging to distinuish different songs based on their genre through unsupervised learning.  It is impressive that Spotify is able to provide listeners with songs based on their genre prefences, and the algorithms Spotify uses to classify music are most likely very complex.  Computers are able to complete mathematical tasks at a rate no human could ever achieve, yet while most humans can distinguish between different types of music with ease, it is far more challenging to enable a computer to do so. 
